The premise of why this should exist is the notion that Window-Managers/Compositors are trying to achieve a very similar user experience as any self-respecting Terminal Multiplexer, and there is no reason why the user experience should be different between the two, and less reason to make a user learn two different user interfaces, but there are obviously many reasons why both should exist.

A great test of a Window Compositor is whether it would work well for both a Desktop Environment, and also a Terminal Multiplexer, intuitively integrating tiling windows and floating windows without sidestepping the design challenge by introducing different "modes". A challenge to this would be that since it is most common to run a terminal multiplexer from inside a desktop environment, they can't share the same keyboard shortcuts, but I would challenge that assumption and say we are more creative than that. An example solution which could leverage most of user muscle memory could be to have all Desktop Environment keyboard shortcuts start with "Meta + ..." and mirror those same shortcuts in the Terminal Multiplexer but all starting with "Ctrl + ..." instead. Every learned shortcut in the Desktop Environment is already learned in the Terminal Multiplexer, with just the one changed modifier key needing to be remembered.

This project started to explore writing a Terminal Emulator from the ground up in zig. Much was learned in that process, and zig would be an excellent language for this, however it is clear that the required effort would surpass the entire rest of the wider encompassing project.

Zellij is an excellent modern Terminal Emulator written in Rust, which has unstoppable momentum, and support for WASM plugins which can be loaded into panes to enhance capabilities. Unfortunately, zellij's pane compositing design and concepts are hard coded, although there are some conceptual similarities with the direction Defaff-Compositor is going such as between Zellij Tabs and Defaff's Workspaces.

This project is at a turning point and will instead switch to extending Zellij itself (if the community will have it) to allow for different WASM plugins to be loaded as Pane Compositors including support for changing, not just the key sequences for each keyboard shortcut, but also what kind of keyboard shortcuts are available.

This would allow for zellij to be leveraged in this project to utilise the Compositor written in zig, while also allowing for others to configure zellij at a much deeper level.
